

                                  KEY ADVANTAGES

       Overview | What's New | Evaluation Criteria | Key Advantages |
   Competitive Comparison | Installation | Suggested Tasks | Fact Sheet |
                                        Primer



ENTERPRISEARCHITECTURE
Netscape Calendar Server's native enterprise architecture supports single
and multiple servers for large, geographically dispersed organizations.

Real-time scheduling. Some calendaring and scheduling systems are
added on to proprietary messaging or replication systems. Messaging-based
calendaring is simply not a reasonable architecture for calendaring and
scheduling, particularly for reserving resources such as conference
rooms. Because of the requirements for real-time calendaring and
scheduling, the IETF Calendar and Scheduling Working Group is currently
trying to define a real-time protocol that does not rely on messaging
protocols. Calendar Server schedules meetings and events in real time,
ensuring that people and conference rooms are available at the meeting
time proposed.

Broad platform support. Netscape Communicator Professional Edition is
available for Windows 3.1, Windows 95, Windows NT, Mac OS, and major Unix
platforms. Calendar Server 3.0 will be available for Sun Solaris, IBM
AIX, HP-UX, Windows NT, and Digital Unix.

POWERFULCALENDARING ANDSCHEDULING SUPPORT
Calendar Server offers the following benefits:

       Multiple priority and event access options let users specify events
       with various levels of access, such as normal, public, and private. 
       Sophisticated designation capabilities allow users to designate
       access to their workgroups, enabling workgroup members to view
       details of normal meetings while restricting their view of
       confidential meetings. Users can designate viewing and modification
       access to their executive assistants for all meetings except
       personal ones. 
       Powerful group management allows users to create and share their own
       groups. 
       Simultaneous group viewing of multiple calendars can be done
       side-by-side with meeting details. 
       Private and members-only groups simplify scheduling of ad hoc
       meetings by allowing end users to create and manage groups.

Resource and conference-room scheduling. Netscape Calendar and
Netscape Calendar Server provide support for conference-room and resource
scheduling.

       Netscape Calendar supports the scheduling of resources such as
       audio-visual equipment and computers as well as conference rooms. 
       Conference rooms and resources can be confirmed when the meeting is
       created, ensuring that users know when and where the meeting can
       take place when scheduling the meeting. Compare this real-time
       scheduling with message or replication-based systems that may force
       the user to wait for email confirmation. 
       Resources and conference rooms are scheduled at the same time as
       people. Some systems require the user to schedule meetings twice -
       once for users and once for the conference room and resources. 
       Conference rooms can be configured on a first-come, first-served
       basis, or they can be managed by an administrator.

REMOTE, DISCONNECTED, AND MOBILE-USERSUPPORT
The Calendar client offers the following benefits to remote users:

       User and resource calendars can be easily viewed offline. 
       Scheduling can be done with local copies of data when disconnected
       and then synchronized with server data when reconnected to the
       network. 
       Protected, remote access network connections to enterprise Calendar
       Server data allow viewing of up-to-date calendars and scheduling
       when working at home or traveling. 
       Sophisticated printing capabilities accommodate those who prefer to
       use paper organizers, including DayRunner, Day-Timer, Franklin, and
       Time System. 
       Remote access to calendars using a web browser is also supported for
       maximum flexibility.

OPEN STANDARDS SUPPORT
On July 24, 1996, Netscape hosted a multivendor calendaring summit that
resulted in the formation of an IETF Working Group to define appropriate
calendaring and scheduling standards.

Communicator Professional Edition supports the vCard and vCalendar data
interchange standards from Versit. VCard enables applications to exchange
ID information such as names, addresses, phone numbers, and email
addresses. VCalendar enables applications to exchange information about
meetings and tasks. Calendar Server 3.0 supports LDAP for directory
access, SMTP for meeting notifications, and Hypertext Transfer Protocol
(HTTP) for Web access.

SMTP integration for meeting notification means that users can schedule
meetings with people outside the organization as easily as adding them to
the directory. Centralized LDAP directory access enables administrators
to spend less time managing user accounts because they will have fewer
directories to administer.

Netscape is committed to the IETF Calendaring and Scheduling Working
Group and will adopt standards as they are defined by the group. Netscape
has also committed senior resources to work with the IETF Calendaring and
Scheduling Working Group.

SUMMARY
Calendaring and scheduling system evaluators should carefully consider
the architecture of any calendaring and scheduling system. Calendar
Server is a native calendaring and scheduling system designed to support
the complex needs of the enterprise. In addition, calendaring and
scheduling standards will become increasingly important as the IETF
Calendaring and Scheduling Working Group defines them. Netscape supports
existing calendaring and scheduling standards such as vCard and
vCalendar, and will adopt new standards as defined by the IETF. Finally,
an enterprise calendaring and scheduling system should support the way
end users work. This includes cross-platform client support, support for
remote and mobile users, and robust printing support. Calendar Server and
Communicator Professional Edition provide powerful end-user support
across platforms.

 
