EVALUATION CRITERIA

       Overview | What's New | Evaluation Criteria | Key Advantages |
   Competitive Comparison | Installation | Suggested Tasks | Fact Sheet |
                                        Primer



Here are some specific questions to ask concerning calendaring and
scheduling products. 

ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE
Verify that the solution has supported calendaring and scheduling in
organizations similar to the one in which it will be used. Examine the
architecture of the product by asking the following questions:

       Is the client available for the variety of platforms in the
       organization so that everyone can use it? 
       Does the solution support the server platforms in the IS department?
       Will IS need to add another hardware or OS platform for this
       application? Will there be additional training and support costs? 
       Can the server support the number of users required? Are there
       existing implementations that are comparable in size? 
       If the organization is located at multiple sites, does the
       architecture support multiple calendar servers? 
       Does the calendar solution support real-time access, or will users
       be scheduling against old data? For example, resources or conference
       rooms require real-time scheduling to avoid frequent double booking.
       Are administration tools consistent, supported on multiple client
       platforms, and powerful enough for large installations? 
       If there are mobile or remote users, does the calendaring solution
       support them? Can mobile users access not only their own, but other
       users' calendars while away from the office?

 

POWERFUL CALENDARING AND SCHEDULING SUPPORT
As with other networked applications, the power and productivity of
calendaring and scheduling grows as the number of users increases.
Consider these questions:

       Does the solution have the features, platform support, and
       simplicity to be used widely? 
       Is the product flexible enough to fit the way the organization
       works? Will major changes be required to accommodate limitations? 
       Do administrative personnel have access to other users' calendars?
       Can users control access by classifying meetings, tasks, and notes
       by various levels such as normal, public, and private? 
       Can others be given limited viewing and modification access? 
       Does the solution provide powerful group-support capabilities to
       simplify scheduling? 
       Can users create and access groups without involving systems
       administrators? 
       Can groups of individuals simultaneously view calendars to speed
       selection of meeting time and resources? 
       If users frequently reference paper calendars, does the solution
       provide adequate printing capabilities? 

RESOURCES AND CONFERENCE SCHEDULING
Today's organization need to schedule more than just people. Efficient
organizations can also use calendaring and scheduling solutions to
reserve conference rooms and other resources, eliminating paper-based
calendars, which might not get updated. Consider these requirements:

       Does the system allow users to reserve conference rooms and
       resources? 
       Can the conference rooms and resources be reserved and confirmed at
       the time the meeting is entered, or does the system require users to
       wait for an email confirmation from the conference room? 
       Can conference rooms be reserved on a first-come, first-serve basis
       and also be managed by an administrator? 
       Does the system schedule and confirm reservations in real time so
       that resource and conference room reservations are not subject to
       latencies due to store-and-forward or replication architectures?

REMOTE, DISCONNECTED, AND MOBILE-USER SUPPORT
For modern enterprises it is critical that remote, disconnected, and
mobile users are able to fully participate in calendaring and scheduling.
Be sure to ask the following questions:

       Can users maintain paper calendars when out of the office? Does the
       solution provide adequate printing capabilities? 
       Is secure remote access supported? Are gateways required? 
       Is web-based access available for users who are away from their
       desktops? 
       Does the solution provide support for popular PDAs such as
       PalmPoint? 
       Are all features available remotely, or are there restrictions? 
       Can schedules be accessed offline, such as on a mobile computer? 
       Is automatic resynchronization of schedules provided between mobile
       and desktop systems? Is redundant data entry required?

COMMITMENT TO OPEN STANDARDS
Determine interoperability with other applications and other calendaring
and scheduling products by examining the vendor's commitment to open
standards. 

       Does the vendor support existing open, industry-supported protocols
       and formats for calendaring and scheduling, such as vCard and
       vCalendar? 
       Has the vendor committed to supporting the open calendaring and
       scheduling standards that will be defined by the Internet
       Engineering Task Force (IETF) Working Group? Some vendors are
       backing protocols or standards that do not have support from several
       major calendaring and scheduling vendors. If protocol support is
       lacking, it may not be a truly open IETF standard. 
       Does the product support related groupware protocols and standards,
       such as the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) for
       directory services, Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) for
       messaging services, and Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP) for
       group-discussion services? Even if a product supports calendaring
       standards, vendor lock-in can occur through proprietary directory,
       messaging, and group-discussion protocols.

