Chapter 17
 
After a  fairly  shaky  start  to  the  day,  Arthur's  mind  was
beginning  to  reassemble  itself from the shellshocked fragments
the previous day had left him with. He had  found  a  Nutri-Matic
machine  which  had provided him with a plastic cup filled with a
liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike  tea.  The
way it functioned was very interesting. When the Drink button was
pressed it made an instant but highly detailed examination of the
subject's  taste  buds, a spectroscopic analysis of the subject's
metabolism and then  sent  tiny  experimental  signals  down  the
neural  pathways  to  the taste centres of the subject's brain to
see what was likely to go down well. However, no one  knew  quite
why  it  did  this  because  it  invariably delivered a cupful of
liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike  tea.  The
Nutri-Matic   was   designed   and  manufactured  by  the  Sirius
Cybernetics Corporation whose complaints  department  now  covers
all  the  major  land  masses  of  the first three planets in the
Sirius Tau Star system.
 
Arthur drank the liquid and found it reviving. He glanced  up  at
the  screens again and watched a few more hundred miles of barren
greyness slide past.  It  suddenly  occurred  to  him  to  ask  a
question which had been bothering him.
 
"Is it safe?" he said.
 
"Magrathea's been dead for five million years," said Zaphod,  "of
course  it's  safe.  Even  the  ghosts will have settled down and
raised  families  by  now."  At  which  point   a   strange   and
inexplicable sound thrilled suddenly through the bridge - a noise
as of a distant fanfare; a hollow, reedy, insubstantial sound. It
preceded   a   voice   that   was   equally   hollow,  reedy  and
insubstantial. The voice said "Greetings to you ..."
 
Someone from the dead planet was talking to them.
 
"Computer!" shouted Zaphod.
 
"Hi there!"
 
"What the photon is it?"
 
"Oh, just some five-million-year-old tape that's being  broadcast
at us."
 
"A what? A recording?"
 
"Shush!" said Ford. "It's carrying on."
 
The  voice  was  old,  courteous,  almost   charming,   but   was
underscored with quite unmistakable menace.
 
"This is a recorded announcement," it said, "as I'm afraid  we're
all out at the moment. The commercial council of Magrathea thanks
you for your esteemed visit ..."
 
("A voice from ancient Magrathea!" shouted Zaphod. "OK, OK," said
Ford.)
 
"... but regrets," continued the voice, "that the  entire  planet
is  temporarily closed for business. Thank you. If you would care
to leave your name and the address of a planet where you  can  be
contacted, kindly speak when you hear the tone."
 
A short buzz followed, then silence.
 
"They want to get rid of us," said Trillian nervously.  "What  do
we do?"
 
"It's just a recording," said Zaphod. "We keep going.  Got  that,
computer?"
 
"I got it," said the computer and gave the ship an extra kick  of
speed.
 
They waited.
 
After a second or so came the fanfare once again,  and  then  the
voice.
 
"We would like to assure you that as  soon  as  our  business  is
resumed  announcements  will be made in all fashionable magazines
and colour supplements, when our clients will once again be  able
to  select  from  all that's best in contemporary geography." The
menace in the voice took on a sharper edge. "Meanwhile  we  thank
our  clients for their kind interest and would ask them to leave.
Now."
 
Arthur looked round the nervous faces of his companions.
 
"Well, I suppose we'd  better  be  going  then,  hadn't  we?"  he
suggested.
 
"Shhh!" said Zaphod. "There's absolutely nothing  to  be  worried
about."
 
"Then why's everyone so tense?"
 
"They're just interested!" shouted  Zaphod.  "Computer,  start  a
descent into the atmosphere and prepare for landing."
 
This time the fanfare was quite perfunctory, the voice distinctly
cold.
 
"It is most gratifying," it said, "that your enthusiasm  for  our
planet  continues  unabated,  and  so we would like to assure you
that the guided missiles currently converging with your ship  are
part  of  a  special  service  we  extend  to  all  of  our  most
enthusiastic clients, and the fully armed nuclear warheads are of
course  merely  a courtesy detail. We look forward to your custom
in future lives ... thank you."
 
The voice snapped off.
 
"Oh," said Trillian.
 
"Er ..." said Arthur.
 
"Well?" said Ford.
 
"Look," said Zaphod, "will you get it  into  your  heads?  That's
just  a  recorded message. It's millions of years old. It doesn't
apply to us, get it?"
 
"What," said Trillian quietly, "about the missiles?"
 
"Missiles? Don't make me laugh."
 
Ford tapped Zaphod on  the  shoulder  and  pointed  at  the  rear
screen.  Clear  in the distance behind them two silver darts were
climbing through the atmosphere towards the ship. A quick  change
of  magnification  brought  them into close focus - two massively
real rockets thundering through the sky. The suddenness of it was
shocking.
 
"I think they're going to have a very good  try  at  applying  to
us," said Ford.
 
Zaphod stared at them in astonishment.
 
"Hey this is terrific!" he said. "Someone down there is trying to
kill us!"
 
"Terrific," said Arthur.
 
"But don't you see what this means?"
 
"Yes. We're going to die."
 
"Yes, but apart from that."
 
"Apart from that?"
 
"It means we must be on to something!"
 
"How soon can we get off it?"
 
Second by second the image of the missiles on the  screen  became
larger.  They had swung round now on to a direct homing course so
that all that could be seen of them now was  the  warheads,  head
on.
 
"As a matter of interest," said Trillian, "what are we  going  to
do?"
 
"Just keep cool," said Zaphod.
 
"Is that all?" shouted Arthur.
 
"No, we're also going to ... er ... take  evasive  action!"  said
Zaphod  with  a  sudden  access of panic. "Computer, what evasive
action can we take?"
 
"Er, none I'm afraid, guys," said the computer.
 
"... or something," said Zaphod, "... er ..." he said.
 
"There  seems  to  be  something  jamming  my  guidance  system,"
explained   the   computer  brightly,  "impact  minus  forty-five
seconds. Please call me Eddie if it will help you to relax."
 
Zaphod tried  to  run  in  several  equally  decisive  directions
simultaneously. "Right!" he said. "Er ... we've got to get manual
control of this ship."
 
"Can you fly her?" asked Ford pleasantly.
 
"No, can you?"
 
"No."
 
"Trillian, can you?"
 
"No."
 
"Fine," said Zaphod, relaxing. "We'll do it together."
 
"I can't either," said Arthur, who felt it was time he  began  to
assert himself.
 
"I'd guessed that," said Zaphod. "OK computer, I want full manual
control now."
 
"You got it," said the computer.
 
Several large desk panels slid open and banks of control consoles
sprang  up  out of them, showering the crew with bits of expanded
polystyrene packaging and balls of  rolled-up  cellophane:  these
controls had never been used before.
 
Zaphod stared at them wildly.
 
"OK,  Ford,"  he  said,  "full  retro  thrust  and  ten   degrees
starboard. Or something ..."
 
"Good luck guys," chirped  the  computer,  "impact  minus  thirty
seconds ..."
 
Ford leapt to the  controls  -  only  a  few  of  them  made  any
immediate  sense  to  him  so he pulled those. The ship shook and
screamed as its guidance rocked jets tried to push it every which
way  simultaneously.  He  released half of them and the ship span
round in a tight arc  and  headed  back  the  way  it  had  come,
straight towards the oncoming missiles.
 
Air cushions ballooned out of the walls in an instant as everyone
was  thrown  against  them. For a few seconds the inertial forces
held them flattened and squirming for  breath,  unable  to  move.
Zaphod  struggled  and  pushed  in  manic desperation and finally
managed a savage kick at a small lever that formed  part  of  the
guidance system.
 
The lever snapped off. The  ship  twisted  sharply  and  rocketed
upwards.  The  crew  were hurled violently back across the cabin.
Ford's copy of The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy smashed into
another  section  of the control console with the combined result
that the guide started to explain to anyone who cared  to  listen
about  the best ways of smuggling Antarean parakeet glands out of
Antares (an Antarean parakeet gland stuck on a small stick  is  a
revolting  but much sought after cocktail delicacy and very large
sums of money are often paid for them by  very  rich  idiots  who
want  to  impress  other very rich idiots), and the ship suddenly
dropped out of the sky like a stone.
 
It was of course more or less at this moment that one of the crew
sustained  a  nasty  bruise  to  the  upper  arm.  This should be
emphasized because, as had already  been  revealed,  they  escape
otherwise  completely unharmed and the deadly nuclear missiles do
not eventually hit the ship. The safety of the crew is absolutely
assured.
 
"Impact minus twenty seconds, guys ..." said the computer.
 
"Then turn the bloody engines back on!" bawled Zaphod.
 
"OK, sure thing, guys," said the computer. With a subtle roar the
engines  cut back in, the ship smoothly flattened out of its dive
and headed back towards the missiles again.
 
The computer started to sing.
 
"When you walk through the storm ..." it  whined  nasally,  "hold
your head up high ..."
 
Zaphod screamed at it to shut up, but his voice was lost  in  the
din   of  what  they  quite  naturally  assumed  was  approaching
destruction.
 
"And don't ... be afraid ... of the dark!" Eddie wailed.
 
The ship, in flattening out had in fact flattened out upside down
and  lying  on  the  ceiling  as  they  were  it  was now totally
impossible for any of the crew to reach the guidance systems.
 
"At the end of the storm ..." crooned Eddie.
 
The  two  missiles  loomed  massively  on  the  screens  as  they
thundered towards the ship.
 
"... is a golden sky ..."
 
But by an extraordinarily lucky chance they  had  not  yet  fully
corrected  their  flight paths to that of the erratically weaving
ship, and they passed right under it.
 
"And the sweet silver songs of the lark ... Revised  impact  time
fifteen seconds fellas ... Walk on through the wind ..."
 
The missiles banked round in a screeching arc  and  plunged  back
into pursuit.
 
"This is it," said  Arthur  watching  them.  "We  are  now  quite
definitely going to die aren't we?"
 
"I wish you'd stop saying that," shouted Ford.
 
"Well we are aren't we?"
 
"Yes."
 
"Walk on through the rain ..." sang Eddie.
 
A thought struck Arthur. He struggled to his feet.
 
"Why doesn't anyone turn on this Improbability Drive  thing?"  he
said. "We could probably reach that."
 
"What are you crazy?" said Zaphod.  "Without  proper  programming
anything could happen."
 
"Does that matter at this stage?" shouted Arthur.
 
"Though your dreams be tossed and blown ..." sand Eddie.
 
Arthur scrambled up on to one end of the excitingly chunky pieces
of  moulded  contouring  where  the  curve  of  the  wall met the
ceiling.
 
"Walk on, walk on, with hope in your heart ..."
 
"Does anyone know why Arthur  can't  turn  on  the  Improbability
Drive?" shouted Trillian.
 
"And you'll never walk alone ... Impact minus five seconds,  it's
been  great knowing you guys, God bless ... You'll ne ... ver ...
walk ... alone!"
 
"I said," yelled Trillian, "does anyone know ..."
 
The next thing that happened  was  a  mid-mangling  explosion  of
noise and light.
 
=================================================================
Chapter 18
 
And the next thing that happened after that was that the Heart of
Gold  continued  on  its  way  perfectly  normally  with a rather
fetchingly redesigned interior. It was somewhat larger, and  done
out  in delicate pastel shades of green and blue. In the centre a
spiral staircase, leading nowhere in particular, stood in a spray
of  ferns  and  yellow  flowers  and  next  to it a stone sundial
pedestal housed the main computer  terminal.  Cunningly  deployed
lighting  and  mirrors  created  the  illusion  of  standing in a
conservatory overlooking a wide stretch of exquisitely  manicured
garden.  Around  the  periphery  of  the  conservatory area stood
marble-topped tables on intricately beautiful wrought-iron  legs.
As  you  gazed  into the polished surface of the marble the vague
forms of instruments became visible, and as you touched them  the
instruments  materialized  instantly  under your hands. Looked at
from the correct angles the mirrors appeared to reflect  all  the
required  data  readouts, though it was far from clear where they
were reflected from. It was in fact sensationally beautiful.
 
Relaxing in a wickerwork sun chair, Zaphod Beeblebrox said, "What
the hell happened?"
 
"Well I was just saying," said Arthur lounging by  a  small  fish
pool,  "there's this Improbability Drive switch over here ..." he
waved at where it had been. There was a potted plant there now.
 
"But where are we?" said Ford  who  was  sitting  on  the  spiral
staircase,  a  nicely  chilled Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster in his
hand.
 
"Exactly where we were, I think ..." said Trillian, as all  about
them  the  mirrors showed them an image of the blighted landscape
of Magrathea which still scooted along beneath them.
 
Zaphod leapt out of his seat.
 
"Then what's happened to the missiles?" he said.
 
A new and astounding image appeared in the mirrors.
 
"They would appear," said Ford doubtfully, "to have turned into a
bowl of petunias and a very surprised looking whale ..."
 
"At an Improbability Factor," cut in Eddie, who hadn't changed  a
bit, "of eight million seven hundred and sixty-seven thousand one
hundred and twenty-eight to one against."
 
Zaphod stared at Arthur.
 
"Did you think of that, Earthman?" he demanded.
 
"Well," said Arthur, "all I did was ..."
 
"That's very good thinking you know. Turn  on  the  Improbability
Drive for a second without first activating the proofing screens.
Hey kid you just saved our lives, you know that?"
 
"Oh," said Arthur, "well, it was nothing really ..."
 
"Was it?" said Zaphod. "Oh well, forget it  then.  OK,  computer,
take us in to land."
 
"But ..."
 
"I said forget it."
 
Another thing that got forgotten was the fact  that  against  all
probability a sperm whale had suddenly been called into existence
several miles above the surface of an alien planet.
 
And since this is not a naturally tenable position for  a  whale,
this poor innocent creature had very little time to come to terms
with its identity as a whale before it then had to come to  terms
with not being a whale any more.
 
This is a complete record of its  thoughts  from  the  moment  it
began its life till the moment it ended it.
 
Ah ... ! What's happening? it thought.
 
Er, excuse me, who am I?
 
Hello?
 
Why am I here? What's my purpose in life?
 
What do I mean by who am I?
 
Calm down, get  a  grip  now  ...  oh!  this  is  an  interesting
sensation,  what  is  it?  It's  a  sort of ... yawning, tingling
sensation in my ... my  ...  well  I  suppose  I'd  better  start
finding  names  for  things if I want to make any headway in what
for the sake of what I shall call an argument I  shall  call  the
world, so let's call it my stomach.
 
Good. Ooooh, it's getting quite strong.  And  hey,  what's  about
this  whistling  roaring sound going past what I'm suddenly going
to call my head? Perhaps I can call that ... wind! Is that a good
name?  It'll do ... perhaps I can find a better name for it later
when I've found out what it's for.  It  must  be  something  very
important  because there certainly seems to be a hell of a lot of
it. Hey! What's this thing? This ... let's call it a tail - yeah,
tail.  Hey! I can can really thrash it about pretty good can't I?
Wow! Wow! That feels great! Doesn't seem to achieve very much but
I'll probably find out what it's for later on. Now - have I built
up any coherent picture of things yet?
 
No.
 
Never mind, hey, this is really exciting, so  much  to  find  out
about,  so  much  to  look  forward  to,  I'm  quite  dizzy  with
anticipation ...
 
Or is it the wind?
 
There really is a lot of that now isn't it?
 
And wow! Hey! What's this thing suddenly coming towards  me  very
fast?  Very  very fast. So big and flat and round, it needs a big
wide sounding name like ... ow ... ound  ...  round  ...  ground!
That's it! That's a good name - ground!
 
I wonder if it will be friends with me?
 
And the rest, after a sudden wet thud, was silence.
 
Curiously enough, the only thing that went through  the  mind  of
the bowl of petunias as it fell was Oh no, not again. Many people
have speculated that if we knew exactly why the bowl of  petunias
had thought that we would know a lot more about the nature of the
universe than we do now.
 
