	"The man of the nineteenth century did not disbelieve in the Resurrection because his liberal Christianity allowed him to doubt it.  He disbelieved in it because his very strict materialism did not allow him to believe it.  Tennyson, a very typical nineteenth century man, uttered one of the instinctive truisms of his contemporaries when he said that there was faith in their honest doubt.  There was indeed.  Those words have a profound and even a horrible truth."  It was Gilbert Keith Chesterton who wrote these words trying to describe why, in his time, disbelief in the supernatural and in miracles were considered to be a liberal philosophy.  "In their doubt of miracles there was a faith in a fixed and godless fate; a deep and sincere faith in the incurable routine of the cosmos.  The doubts of the agnostic were only the dogmas of the monist."
	Chesterton, a modernist philosopher, was correct in his interpretation of the waning of religious faith in the nineteenth century.  Tennyson, in his work _In Memoriam_, said that "there lives more faith in honest doubt than in half the creeds."  While Matthew Arnold saw faith as something which disappeared because "miracles do not happen," Tennyson saw a new kind of faith, one which relied more on doubt than dogma.
	There is today, and there was in the nineteenth century, a disagreement on exactly what the nature of faith is.  The author of Hebrews said that "faith is being sure of what we hope for, and certain of what we do not see."  It is this traditional view of faith that has caused such disagreement, that along with faith there must be some certainty, and that certainty implies that 1) there can be no doubt, and 2) faith and reason are in opposition.  This is the view of faith that both Arnold and Tennyson hoped to transcend.
	Tennyson described faith as something which, rather than being in opposition to reason, is in opposition to knowledge.  He said of faith,

	We have but faith: we cannot know;
	  For knowledge is of things we see;
	  And yet we trust it comes from thee,
	A beam in darkness: let it grow. (In Memoriam, 20-24)

Tennyson's claim is that faith is a certainty of what we do not know.  He also claimed that faith does not preclude doubt, as his lover would have him believe, but rather that faith goes hand in hand with doubt; it is doubt that brings about our certainty:

	Perplext in faith, but pure in deeds,
	  At last he beat his music out.
	  There lives more faith in honest doubt,
	Believe me, than in half the creeds. (In Memoriam XCVI, 12-15)

	Arnold holds a similar view, that while traditionally having faith is "to take on trust what perplexes the reason," a more correct view is that "faith, instead of being a submission of the reason to what puzzles it, is rather a recognition of what is perfectly clear, if we will attend to it"  (Literature and Dogma, Ch. VII).  This is a little different from Tennyson's view, as Tennyson does not make the claim that faith is of something which is necessarily clear.  This is the ultimate difference between Arnold and Tennyson: Tennyson holds that faith is of things we cannot know (that is, things which "perplex the reason"), Arnold holds that faith must be of things which can be reasoned out, otherwise faith will invariable lead to ludicrous conclusions.  One of these ludicrous conclusions, according to Arnold, is the belief that there is such a thing as a miracle; rather, "miracles do not happen," and so to have faith in a miracle is to have faith in nothing.
	One of the verses in _In Memoriam_ is about a married couple who loved each other so much they look only to each other and not to what "the faithless people say."  It is one of Tennyson's physical examples of what he believes it means to have faith.  It is an example from real life, an ideal nineteenth century scene.

	Her faith is fixt and cannot move,
	  She darkly feels him great and wise,
	  She dwells on him with faithful eyes,
	"I cannot understand: I love."

This woman does not understand knowledge, or of anything her husband knows, but she loves her husband nevertheless.  It is her lack of knowledge which gives her faith.  She is a perfect metaphor for the Christian church -- Christ as the husband and she as the Church.  While God understands so much more than we can ever possibly know, just like the woman, it is because of this that we love.
	Arnold, however, gives a different view of faith in the nineteenth century.  He speaks of the Athanasian creed, of clergy and the "sentence by sentence" enumeration of perplexing beliefs that they proclaim.  "We see how wide of the mark is that metaphysical clergymen... in imagining that... Jesus had in view anything at all like the 'facts' which the Athanasian Creed 'aranges, sentence after sentence.'"  It is this Creed, which does not and cannot capture the essence of Christ, which has cast darkness upon society.
	Peter wrote in his letter, "For in Scripture it says: 'See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame.'  Now to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, 'The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone,' and, 'A stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall.'  According to Arnold, "Peter proving his Master's Messiahship from a Psalm that does not prove it,... foresaw the growth of creeds, the growth of dogma, and so through all the confusion worse confounded of councils, schoolmen, and confessions of faith, down to our own two bishops bent on 'doing something' for the honour of the Godhead of the Eternal Son!"  Arnold almost makes the traditional faith seem evil, though it is not the faith itself which is evil, but the dogma upon which the faith is built.
	Tennyson questions faith, asking whether faith should lead to an answer, or whether an answer should lead to faith.  To Arnod, to make a claim that faith can lead to an answer, would be unreasonable.  On the other hand, there is something poetic about faith in things unseen:

	Is faith as vague as all unsweet:
	  Eternal form shall still divide
	  The eternal soul from all beside;
	And I shall know him when we meet: (_In Memoriam_ XLVII, 5-8)

	Arnold claims that it is exactly this sort of faith that is prevailant in the nineteenth century.  "The unlettered believer is, in fact, -- according to this version of what the Bible means to say, -- represented in the Bible as a better judge about a thing than which perplexes the reason than the philosopher."  He goes on to say, "these happy men are supposed to have, by faith, a certainty in matters perplexing in the highest degree to the reason, which the vaunted exercise of the reason can never attain to."
	It is the book of John which Arnold sites in his claims against this view of faith.  "... how could Christ say to the Jews: 'If I tell you the truth, why do ye not believe me?'  Surely this implies that faith, instead of being a submission of the reason to what puzzles it, is rather a recognition of what is perfectly clear, if we will <i>attend</i> to it."  The point that Arnold is making is that rather than basing our beliefs on dogma, as was common in his time, we should base our beliefs on the truth.
	This system of finding the truth, generally through deductive reasoning, then basing faith on this newfound truth, is a great method, provided that there is a reasonable basis step and line of logic which can lead to the truth.  Unfortunately, this is not true in the case of a mystery, and thus it is no wonder that Arnold was an agnostic.  Tennyson, however, understood the true nature of faith:

	I streth lame hands of faith, and grope,
	  And gather dust and chaff, and call
	  To what I feel is Lord of all,
	And faintly trust the larger hope. (In Memoriam LV, 17-20)

To Tennyson, faith is about finding a solution to these mysteries.  If "faith is being sure of what we hope for," then surely it is that hope in which we must trust; we cannot be forever skeptics, otherwise what conclusion can we ever hope to find?  Faith provides us a certainty in "things we do not see," and it is that certainty that the skeptic lacks.  It is for the same reason that the Lady of Shalott cannot look out the window that the skeptic cannot accept a truth -- for fear of a curse, in this case, the curse of having to accept a certainty.  Even in spite of the consequences, I think I will choose the certainty.
